### a. Subject Matter of Micro Economics

Microeconomics examines how individuals and firms make decisions about resource allocation and pricing within markets. It covers topics such as demand and supply dynamics, which determine market equilibrium prices and quantities. It also explores consumer behavior, focusing on how individuals maximize utility within their budget constraints. Additionally, microeconomics looks into production and cost structures, analyzing how firms optimize their output and manage expenses to achieve profitability. Market structures are another key area, studying various competitive environments like perfect competition and monopoly, and their impact on market outcomes. Factor markets, which deal with the allocation and pricing of resources such as labor and capital, are also crucial. Finally, welfare economics evaluates the overall well-being of society and the effects of economic policies on resource distribution and social welfare. Together, these topics provide a comprehensive understanding of how economic activities and policies influence individual and market behavior.

### b. Shift of Demand Curve

A shift in the demand curve denotes a change in the quantity demanded of a product or service at every price level. This shift can be caused by various factors such as changes in consumer preferences, income levels, prices of related goods, population demographics, or expectations about the future. When the demand curve shifts to the right, it indicates an increase in demand, leading to higher equilibrium price and quantity. Conversely, when the demand curve shifts to the left, it signifies a decrease in demand, resulting in lower equilibrium price and quantity. Understanding the reasons behind shifts in the demand curve is crucial for businesses to adapt their strategies effectively, maximize profits, and stay competitive in the market.

### c. Importance of Economics for BCA Students

No Answer

---
Contributed by<br>
<div class="contributors"><a href='#'><div class="contributor-pill">Rakesh Raut</div></a></div>